##Assignment 11 - Custom Input File Format

__Goal:__

For assignment 11, you'll create a custom input file format to understand how InputFormat, RecordReader, and InputSplit are used in Hadoop.

Your custom InputFormat will generate random text messages with the following characteristics:

* Random message length from 1 to 99 words long.
* The mean message length should be 50 words, with standard deviation of 10 (hint: use the method Random.nextGaussian() ).
* Words in the message are randomly chosen from these words: "The", "quick", "brown", "fox", "jumped", "over", "the", "lazy", "dog", "sir".  Randomly select each word in each message (if a message has 40 words, each of the 40 words is selected randomly and independently from the list of 10 words above).

The random messages generated by your custom input format will we input to a map-reduce program that will compute the word statistics (just as you did in assignment 2). In addition to word statistics, you should also compute the statistics for the message length (collect data in order to calculate the mean and variance). Feel free to use the WordStaticsticsWritable class posted on Canvas in Files / Solutions / Assignment 4, and the supporting classes posted on Canvas in Files / Solutions / Assignment 2.

In implementing your custom input format you will specify the number of mappers and the number of records generated by each mapper (see the example in the textbook in Chapter 7, page 184 through page 188 - it generates random messages). Use small numbers here (for example, 2 mappers and 100 records) as you are developing your solution. Once you have your solution working, make a final run with 10 mappers and 100,000 records generated by each mapper, for a total of 1,000,000 random messages generated and processed by your map-reduce program. You can hard code the number of mappers and number of records generated in your solution, or you can pass these numbers in from the command line as the solution in the book does.

__Required elements:__

* Custom input format that generates random messages, using the 10 words given above.
* Random messages should have a mean length or 50 words, with a standard deviation of 10.
* Use a combiner. You'll be generating 1,000,000 messages as input, and a combiner will greatly reduce the amount of data in the shuffle/sort phase.
* Output word statistics and statistics for message length.

__Artifacts to submit:__

* Assignment11Build.zip - all files (Java, pom.xml) in the directory structure required by maven and buildable with your pom.xml file.
* Assignment11Code.zip - all files (Java) in a flat directory for easy inspection for grading
* Assignment11Output.txt - the output file containing the word statistics and the message length statistics
* Assignment11Syslog.txt - the syslog generated from your run with 10 mappers, each generating 100,000 records.